I don't know where it came from but I
always loved sports and then skiing was
always number one and I guess that was
because of my father because he loves
skiing all the coaches I have had up
over the years and my first kosher
coaches were definitely my family so
already from I was eight or seven eight
things started to get quite serious
actually you know he wanted me to
improve all the skills I needed in all
different kind of portion of balance
coordination speed jumping ability
aerobic condition all those kind of
things so I remember I took 100 pushups
100 sit-ups and the 12 most important
yoga exercises every day my father he
used to go on the balcony when the
neighbors walked by and he looked down
and said if you don't take a hundred
push-ups you don't get dinner well I
mean I've maybe shouldn't say this cuz
I'll make his head big but like almost
is definitely like one of my idols he
was when I was growing up and
full first time in when I was a kid I
was just sharing home because he was
enraged and he was doing well he was
winning and I mean that's a little
Norwegian kids skiing you like that he
like I see another guy you know same
country doing well I'm proud to ski for
my country
I think command I think I was also lucky
and fortunate to grow up in a good
country
there's the strong ski history nor
where's the women's ski jumping in a
cross country and like this all parts of
it but ski skis and skiing is from part
of the region tradition you just have to
trust that you have trained enough that
you're strong enough that your technique
holds up that your that your equipment
is good enough the equipment should help
you help you be the fastest in the world
and help your technique like to peruse
ski in the most efficient way equipment
is without good equipment you're not
going to win
you know we always had discussions what
can be fast what can we do and we
brought that on to the phoenix staff and
every year they come up with better
ideas great ideas before Phoenix came in
we hardly had any medals after Phoenix
came in with one more than sixty medals
in the world championship olympic games
for last what year so that says it all I
guess the world championships Olympic
Games that's where I won my biggest
races the greatest feeling I've ever had
Finn it crossing a finish line was in
the slalom event I was 21 years old at
that time I had lead after the first run
and I managed to cope with the pressure
and you know when I've crossed the line
and I saw number one you know in the
finish board that moment was the
greatest moment degree is feeling ever
they've always been danger but when
danger makes you really scared it's when
you don't really know how to deal with
it I was kind of guy who if I knew and
now I do have a chance to win something
major something important then I was
willing to take this that little extra
risk maybe you know put my life on the
line to win by crash taking a new bridge
and corrado and 2007 had yeah multiple
interest injuries I guess I was lucky
like now I'm on up something
it's always driven I always knew my
biggest challenge would be retiring
actually because I was so into this
board and I still loved the sport so it
was very satisfying to manage to win
that Olympic gold medal to finish my
career on the high note you have to
train up being a normal person you have
to train up being a good dad and the
same with skiing it sucks in the
beginning because you're bad at it but
then when you start to be good in doing
things better it's more fun so now I
really enjoy in the normal life
there's always challenges like the hills
are I mean how can you be faster on the
on the hills or how can you be passing
anything you always mean it's racing
your challenge is always to be faster
than the rest of the starting grid when
it's your day or they're just going to
grab it
when people asked me when I was winning
all those medals through the years which
one is the best I always said the next
one is the best one